Disclaimer: All images used in this assignment are created by Jake Mittleman and he
authorizes their use in this project.

Images are sourced from mrmcgentleman.tumblr.com

# How to use our image editor

Editing images with our program is easy! (and fun!). It can be used either with a Batch Script
or with a GUI. 

## Opening the program.

There are 2 ways to open the program: In interactive mode (with a GUI) or in script-mode (where
the program runs a script). 

### GUI Mode / Interactive mode
First, navigate to the folder where the file is stored. Run your terminal
in this area (We know bash works, but others may work as well). Then type in this command:

`java -jar HW_10.jar -interactive`

This should open up the GUI for you.

### Batch Script mode
To run the program with a text file containing a Batch Script, navigate to the folder where the
.JAR-file is located and open up your preferred terminal (again, bash works but others may also work).
Enter the following: 

`java -jar HW_10.jar -script input.txt`

Replace 'input.txt' with your own text file containing the Batch Script you wish to execute.
If you don't know how to write a Batch Script for this program, you'll find information of that further
down.

### In IntelliJ
If you wish to run the program through IntelliJ, you first have to open "Run" -> "Edit Configurations" and finally, in main, enter "-interactive" in the field
that says "Program arguments".

# Operations

Below, you'll find all the differnt operation this program supports. Each operation is avaiable in both the script version as the GUI version unless
stated otherwise. The format of the scripts are all presented further below the operation descriptions.

## File

### 1. Save
The 'save' command let's you save a picture to a filepath of your choice. 
In the GUI, the save command is found under "File -> save". The GUI will then present the user with a file explorer to navigate to the desired
directory. A filename needs to be added. If a filename is added without an extension (like .jpg, .png), the format will automatically be .jpg.

### 2. Load
The 'load' command let's you load an already existing image from your computer. In the GUI, the load command is found under "File -> Load".
The GUI will display a file explorer, where you can navigate to a file and select it with your cursor.

## Edit

### 1. Undo
The 'Undo' button will undo your latest action. It will not undo a 'load' operation nor a 'save' operation,
but it will undo generation of images. It also won't undo the very first action you take. If you generate an image
as your very first action, this will not be undo-able. 

In the GUI, this is found under "Edit -> Undo".

### 2. Redo
The 'Redo' button will redo your latest undo. This only works if your latest operation was a undo action.
If you undo a few operations and then decide on a new action, the redo button will not work anymore. It only allows
for redoing previously "undone" operations.

In the GUI, this is found under "Edit -> Redo".

## Apply Filter

All of the filers in the program are only available when an image is loaded. This means it's either
loaded with the 'load' operation, or generated by using the 'Generate pattern' operations.

### 1. Blur
Blur will apply a blur filter to the image. In the GUI, this is found under "Apply Filter -> Blur".

### 2. Sepia
Sepia will apply a sepia effect to the image. In the GUI, this is found under "Apply Filter -> Sepia".

### 3. Grayscale
Grayscale will apply a grayscale effect to the image. In the GUI, this is found under "Apply Filter -> Grayscale".

### 4. Dither
Dither will apply a dither effect to the image. In the GUI, this is found under "Apply Filter -> Dither".

### 5. Mosaic
Mosaic will first prompt the user for a number of 'seeds'. Once they're entered, it will apply
the mosaic effect to the image with the provided number of seeds. The seeds need to be entered as
numbers, and have to be larger than 0. 

In the GUI, this is found under "Apply Filter -> Mosaic".

### 6. Sharpen
Sharpen will apply a sharpen effect on the image. In the GUI, this is found under "Apply Filter -> Sharpen".

## Generate Pattern

### 1. Checkerboard
Generates a black&white checkerboard. The checkerboard will always be 8 by 8 squares, but you
as the user get to decide the length of the square. For the batch script, replace *number* with 
the length of the square, in numerical. 

In the GUI, this is found under "Generate Pattern -> Checkerboard".

### 2. Horizontal Rainbow
Generates an image with colors of the rainbow evenly distributed over the area of the rainbow image.
Requires the input of the length and the width of the image, as numbers.
Enter both of these numbers as positive numerical numbers.

In the GUI, this is found under "Generate Pattern -> Rainbow -> Horizontal".

### 3. Vertical Rainbow
Generates an image with colors of the rainbow evenly distributed over the area of the rainbow image.
Requires the input of the length and the width of the image, as numbers.
Enter both of these numbers as positive numerical numbers.

In the GUI, this is found under "Generate Pattern -> Rainbow -> Vertical".

### 4. French Flag
Generates an image of the french flag. It will require input from the user in the form of a number, the desired height. The width is decided based on dimensions
of the flag. 

In the GUI, this is found under "Generate Pattern -> Flag -> French flag".

### 5. Greek Flag
Generates an image of the greek flag. It will require input from the user in the form of a number, the desired height. The width is decided based on dimensions
of the flag. 

In the GUI, this is found under "Generate Pattern -> Flag -> Greek flag".

### 6. Swiss Flag
Generates an image of the swiss flag. It will require input from the user in the form of a number, the desired height. The width is decided based on dimensions
of the flag. 

In the GUI, this is found under "Generate Pattern -> Flag -> Swiss flag".

# Batch Scripting

All operations available in the program (except for 'undo' and 'redo') are also available through Batch Script.
You can run Batch Scripts directly through the GUI by clicking on "Batch Scripting -> New Batch Script".	
Note that a batch script can be undone through the undo button, but it will undo the whole script and not
each action.

Below are all the operations and their batch equivalent. Consecutive commands should be seperated by newline characters.

All numbers that are required should be entered as numericals, and not in there alphabetical spelling. For example, use "9" and not "nine".

## Batch Script Commands

### Save
`save filename`, where the filename is the relative path of the file. It needs to include the file extension.

### Load
`load filename`, where the filename is the relative path of the file. It needs to include the file extension.

### Blur
`apply blur`. Needs have an image loaded to work.

### Sepia
`apply sepia`. Needs to have an image loaded to work.

### Grayscale
`apply grayscale`. Needs to have an image loaded to work.

### Dither
`apply dither`. Needs to have an image loaded to work.   

### Mosaic
`apply mosaic x` where x is an arbitrary positive number denoting the amount of seeds. Needs to have an image loaded to work.

### Sharpen
`apply sharpen`. Needs to have an image loaded to work.

### Checkerboard
`generate checkerboard x` where x is an arbitrary positive number denoting the length of the squares.

### Horizontal rainbow
`generate rainbow horizontal x y` where x and y are arbitrary positive numbers denoting the width and height, in that order.

### Vertical rainbow
`generate rainbow vertical x y` where x and y are arbitrary positive numbers denoting the width and height, in that order.

### French flag
`generate france x` where x is an arbitrary positive number denoting the height of the flag.

### Greek flag
`generate greece x` where x is an arbitrary positive number denoting the height of the flag.

### Swiss flag
`generate switzerlands x` where x is an arbitrary positive number denoting the height of the flag.

## Design Changes
The program now has 2 controllers. One is for the batch scripts, and one is for the added view.
The model no longer handles I/O because we were taught that it is bad (it is now handled by the controller).
The model now has a 'buffer' object to handle undo and redo operations.

## Program Completion State
The program is now in a state where it's complete in all it offers, and it offers everything that has been required of it through assignments.
All of its operations are presented throughout this readme, and it all works as documented. There is nothing in the program that is incomplete or
unfinished.